# The Kestner Blog:

## Week 7

* **What is Pseudocode and why bother with it?**
When you start coding, you soon realise that you have a very big problem to solve/ build without any instructions. It's similar to getting a brand new piece of furniture that has tons of pieces. At first, you may think about some of the parts you have to assemble. The issue is when you actually start to put them together! You suddenly realize that you don't know where a specific piece goes or even the purposes for them. Having instructions before starting helps you prepare yourself before and during this process. With coding, you usually don't get these instructions given to you... this is where Pseudocode comes in. This is where you get to create/think exactly what instructions you need to put this project together. Once you finish your Pseuocode, it may not even be finished once you jump into coding, but it will allow you to have enough instruction laid out to get started. You will be able to think about all the possible reusable pieces of code that is required for your project. You can describe what you need each piece to do and how you plan to use them. This will allow you to mostly focus on how to code these specific parts of the project instead of trying to juggle both the logic of how to use it and how to code it. Eventually you may have built a type of furniture so many times that you can do it blindfolded. Although at some point there may be a certain change with how that piece of furniture is being built. Which is something that can easily change with coding due to the ever change nature of the Tech field. Which you will most likely find yourself needing instructions again. When you do, you'll wish you had your Pseudocode ready to go.